README.rst, before:

DynamicGut
==========

Please use the `cobrapy Google
Group <http://groups.google.com/group/cobra-pie>`_ for help.
Alternatively, you can use
`gitter.im <https://gitter.im/opencobra/cobrapy>`_ for quick questions
and discussions (faster response times).

More information about opencobra is available at the
`website <http://opencobra.github.io/>`_.

Installation
------------

Use pip to install DynamicGut from
`PyPI <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/dynamicgut>`_ (we recommend doing this
inside a `virtual environment
<http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/>`_)::

    pip install dynamicgut


Direct installation in virtual environment
------------------------------------------

1. If virtualenvwrapper is not installed, `follow the directions <https://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__
   to install virtualenvwrapper.

Run examples in a notebook
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

An example of how to use DynamicGut is provided in a notebook. Here's how to start Jupyter and run
the notebook from the virtualenv.

References
----------

1. cobrapy `doi:10.1186/1752-0509-7-74 <http://dx.doi.org/doi:10.1186/1752-0509-7-74>`_
2. ModelSEED `doi:10.1038/nbt.1672 <http://dx.doi.org/doi:10.1038/nbt.1672>`_
3. PATRIC `doi:10.1093/nar/gkt1099 <http://dx.doi.org/doi:10.1093/nar/gkt1099>`_

Commit message:

Add unit test and corresponding data files

README.rst, after:

DynamicGut
==========

DynamicGut simulates microbial interactions in a community over time given a
specific diet.

Please use the `cobrapy Google
Group <http://groups.google.com/group/cobra-pie>`_ for help.
Alternatively, you can use
`gitter.im <https://gitter.im/opencobra/cobrapy>`_ for quick questions
and discussions (faster response times).

More information about opencobra is available at the
`website <http://opencobra.github.io/>`_.

Installation
------------

Use pip to install DynamicGut from
`PyPI <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/dynamicgut>`_ (we recommend doing this
inside a `virtual environment
<http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/>`_)::

    pip install dynamicgut


Direct installation in virtual environment
------------------------------------------

1. If virtualenvwrapper is not installed, `follow the directions <https://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__
   to install virtualenvwrapper.

Run examples in a notebook
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

An example of how to use DynamicGut is provided in a notebook. Here's how to start Jupyter and run
the notebook from the virtualenv.

References
----------

The three models in the "test/data" folder come from AGORA along with the initial_unhealthy_diet.

1. cobrapy `doi:10.1186/1752-0509-7-74 <http://dx.doi.org/doi:10.1186/1752-0509-7-74>`_
2. ModelSEED `doi:10.1038/nbt.1672 <http://dx.doi.org/doi:10.1038/nbt.1672>`_
3. PATRIC `doi:10.1093/nar/gkt1099 <http://dx.doi.org/doi:10.1093/nar/gkt1099>`_
